so I have some nice chanterelles here
and I have cleaned thousands of pounds
of chanterelles for restaurants this is
how I do it I do use water because
really these things grow in the ground
they're going to have dirt on them you
really got to wash them unless they're
absolutely pristine and you can see that
there is not speck of dirt chanterelles
are chanterelles are pretty tricky to
clean a lot of times they have these
crevices here and the dirt will kind of
stick to their stem especially if
there's been a raining and then it's
been a little bit dry so here's how I
clean chanterelles I'm going to start
off a look at the stub all this kind of
take my knife and I can scrape any of
the dirt that's really stuck on I can
just scrape that off with a knife okay
make sure you look at the gills too I
can see there's a little bit of dirt
right in there you can see so also
because there's all this dirt here in
the crevice he's got to get washed so
just fill sink with cold water make sure
to use cold water and then just give it
a little swish okay maybe you rub on it
with your finger a little bit and then
you can spot clean it don't leave them
sitting in the water they'll soak up the
water and you'll kill them just take a
towel and you can just wipe the dirt now
the water will loosen up the dirt and if
you have to go through again and just
lightly switch that's all you want to do
they're going to soak up water really
really fast so then I just go with the
towel and then right away set them on a
super dry towel and now you can't even
tell but they're going to exude water
and there it's going to go into the
towel the towel is going to soak it up
and then after a little while I mean 10
to 15 minutes it does take a little time
they will be totally dry and ready to
caramelize in a saute pan or use them
however you like
so that's how I clean chanterelles